# FreeEdit : Towards a Training Free Approach for 3D Scene Editing

## Abstract
Text driven diffusion models have shown remarkable capabilities in editing images. However, when editing 3D scenes, existing works mostly rely on training a NeRF for 3D editing. Recent NeRF editing methods leverages edit operations by deploying 2D diffusion models and project these edits into 3D space. They require strong positional priors alongside text prompt to identify the edit location. These methods are operational on small 3D scenes and are more generalized to particular scene. They require training for each specific edit and cannot be exploited in real-time edits. To address these limitations, we propose a novel method, FreeEdit, to make edits in training free manner using mesh representations as a substitute for NeRF. Training-free methods are now a possibility because of the advances in foundation model’s space. We leverage these models to bring a training-free alternative and introduce solutions for insertion, replacement and deletion. We consider insertion, replacement and deletion as basic blocks for performing intricate edits with certain combinations of these operations. Given a text prompt and a 3D scene, our model is capable of identifying what object should be inserted/replaced or deleted and location where edit should be performed. We also introduce a novel algorithm as part of FreeEdit to find the optimal location on grounding object for placement. We evaluate our model by comparing it with baseline models on a wide range of scenes using quantitative and qualitative metrics and showcase the merits of our method with respect to others.


## Code
Coming Soon!!
